well I had either internet people it's
bow down so today we're gonna talk about
tunnels there's a lot of dramatic stuff
going on right now a lot of it is
overwhelming that is on full display in
my inbox a lot of the messages that
carried that theme people wondering when
it's gonna get better
and more than a couple of people use the
phrase quite at the end of the tome and
that's a way to look at it we're in a
tunnel that's dark eventually we're
gonna get to that end point I don't know
that that's a good way to frame it I
think it may be self-defeating I don't
even know that's accurate because we
come out of those tunnels all the time
on certain issues we reach the light at
the end of the tunnel but we don't it
happens so slowly that it's
imperceptible
you won't be able to do this if you're
younger but think of something that's
changed within your life like for me
growing up
white and black dating still pretty
taboo not something that happened very
often and those that did it
well they got side ID today not really
an issue is it it's not an issue
not a big one at some point in my life
that changed can't Taylor month can't
tell the year but at some point on that
issue we reached a white at the end of
the tone don't know when though and that
happens all the time all the time do you
think of most issues today as dark as
the tunnel may seem compare them to 500
years ago 400 300 250 20 most issues are
better most issues are better because
that's who we are as a species that's
what humanity is we drive forward most
of us there are those regressives that
have to be drugged kicking and screaming
into the future but
take pride that your you're one of those
dragging them if you're waiting to get
to the light at the end of the tone
you're never gonna get there you're
never gonna get there if we're gonna
stick with this analogy why it's a train
that's moving away from you just as fast
as you go you will never get there
because that's who we are as a species
let's say tomorrow poverty ends it's
over all over the world everybody's out
of poverty what happens do we just sit
down and chill oh of course not
we have to raise our itty standard of
living if everybody has health care
tomorrow then what is the problem solved
no we need new treatments we need to
become more efficient climate change
issues solved tomorrow then what we have
to undo the damage that was already done
and then we're done with that we should
make another planet habitable
that's who we are we will drive forward
there is no light at the end of the
tunnel because there is no tunnel it's
not what it is it's just us it's
humanity we're moving forward and it
takes time it takes time and there are
those people who tried to drag us back
and we've got them by the ankle and
their fingernails are just dug into the
ground and we're pulling them along
that's where we're at though we can sit
here and end each other over skin tone
language and what books we read we can
make Mars habitable there will always be
another fight there will always be
something that needs improvement don't
wait for the end of the tunnel don't
look for that don't look for that
journey that advancement to end be proud
you're part of it embrace the fight
because it's gonna go on your entire
life the issues that we have today as
soon as they're solved there will be
other things that we want to fix and
that's good that's good that's how it
should be
there is no tunnel yeah at times it
seems dark and at times it is
but it's just us moving forward it's us
as a species the fact that you want to
get to the light at the end of the
tunnel it means you're moving the right
direction you want to get out of the
darkness you want to propel us and do a
society that is truly beneficial for
everyone just understand if you're never
gonna get there and that's good it's not
a bad thing we will always be improving
there will always be another battle it
will go on your entire life
we are planting shade trees we will
never sit under em it's great don't get
down just keep moving anyway it's just a
fault y'all have a good day